# Nefarious LinkedIn 

LinkedIn violates their own users' privacy in an effort to detect the usage of 
browser extensions. At the time of writing this, LinkedIn is scanning visitors 
for 38 different browser extensions. 

I will dive into how LinkedIn detects extensions and what extension developers 
can do to prevent detection. 

I have built an open source browser extension that lists which extensions 
LinkedIn is currently scanning your browser for.

![Demo](images/demo.gif?raw=true "Nefarious LinkedIn Extension Demo")

### Installation 

You can click [here](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/nefarious-linkedin/mpkhbmjfapljfhjopagghpfgbmghjpah)
to install the extension via the Google web store, or you can download any 
[release](https://github.com/prophittcorey/nefarious-linkedin/releases) from this 
repository and load it via Chrome's `chrome://extensions` page.

If you are unsure how to load an unpacked extension, you can see how [here](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/getstarted#unpacked).

### How does LinkedIn detect extensions?

There are two common ways to detect the usage of a browser extension. The first 
method is by scanning public resources available in the extension, the other is
by analyzing the target web page for abnormal behavior. 

LinkedIn is currently using _**both**_ of these methods. 

###### Public Resources

Public resource detection is by far the simplest method to detect the usage of 
an extension. It is also the easiest to detect as an end user. In fact, it is 
what turned me on to LinkedIn's nefarious activities to begin with.

If you browser LinkedIn with your developer console open you may occasionally 
notice a series of network request errors. If you look at the requests you will
notice they are not external requests, rather they are requests to local files.
These local files begin with `chrome-extension://` which indicates the web page
is making requests to files located in your browser itself. 

I have attached a little animated gif showing what these requests look like on 
LinkedIn. 

![LinkedIn Spying](./images/spying.gif "LinkedIn Spying")

In this case, the presence of an error message indicates the resource was not 
available and therefore the extension they were looking for is not installed on
your browser. If the request succeeded LinkedIn would then know you do have the 
extension installed. 

###### Behavioral Patterns

The second method to detect the usage of an extension is by examining the web 
page itself and identifying any side effects of an extension. LinkedIn is 
actively using CSS selectors to locate identifying elements on the page. 

For instance, they may look for an ID or class used by the extension, etc. 

LinkedIn uses your browser's local storage to store a JSON file that contains 
a list of extensions to detect. Each extension contains one or more public 
resources to look for as well as one or more CSS selectors to use to try an
detect the extension. 

LinkedIn tries to obfuscate the JSON document but doesn't do a very good job. 

The file itself is located in the local storage of your browser under the key 
`C_C_M`. If you look at the contents of the key, you'll see gibberish. The 
contents are base64 encoded. 

Once decoded the contents are further obfuscated. It's clearly a JSON document 
but the characters are all converted to their unicode byte patterns which makes 
reading it as a human difficult. If you parse the JSON you can retrieve a human 
friendly object to examine. 

Try it yourself, visit a LinkedIn page, open the inspector and run:

```javascript 
JSON.parse(window.atob(localStorage.getItem('C_C_M')))
```

You can see the output here: 

![Local Storage Contents](./images/localstorage.png?raw=true "Local Storage Contents")

Notice the `selector` attribute in the JSON? It's clear they are searching for 
an element with the id `#daxtra-info-div`. 

If you examine the path list in the JSON you can see which public resources they
are looking for. In this case: `ombdgbngokkngdbcahjbeimfcfimdole/magnet/ChromePlugin/inject/daxtra_info.html`

Clearly, they are trying to identify users with the 
[Daxtra](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/daxtra-magnet/ombdgbngokkngdbcahjbeimfcfimdole?hl=en) 
extension installed.

Funnily enough they try to obfuscate the name of each extension. If you look at
the name in the screenshot you can see, `wOmysO` which maps to `Daxtra`. It is 
fairly clear the encoded name has gone through a substitution cipher.

There is enough information in the file to reverse engineer the substitution 
cipher (which is what I have done in the extension above). 

The other information in the JSON is not so interesting. There's mainly book
keeping information such as how often to scan your browser, the current version
of the JSON document, which URLs to scan for each extension, etc.

I have kept an eye on the document over the last few weeks and I have noticed 
within the last two weeks the number of extensions LinkedIn is looking for has 
gone up from 28 to 38.

### Tips for Extension Developers

1. Don't use web accessible resources.

Out of the 38 extensions LinkedIn is currently looking for, 28 are using web 
accessible resources. This is by far the easiest thing to avoid which greatly
helps your users' privacy. 

Furthermore, there's no good reason to use web accessible resources in an 
extension! You can always find a solution to your problem that does not require
them. 

2. Limit content script activity to simple reads. 

This is harder to do because it reduces the usefullness of many extensions, but
if you want to isolate your extension from the web page you must do this. 

3. Don't display your extension using a content script, try a browser action.

Consider using a browser action instead of modifying the page via content 
scripts. Browser actions run in an isolated environment and makes detecting them
much harder if not impossible. 
    
### Credit 

The squirrel icon used by the extension was found on 
[Flaticon](http://www.flaticon.com/) and is credited to Freepik. 

### Code Visualization:

Here is a cool visualization of the code evolution

 [![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/rNs6BczNb7k/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rNs6BczNb7k)

 [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rNs6BczNb7k](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rNs6BczNb7k)

